== allow_action_once

allow_action_once is a plugin for Rails that allows you to restrict a user to performing a given action only once. For example if you have a poll that you want anonymous visitors to be able to use, but you don't want each user to be able to vote multiple times you can user allow_action_once. allow_action_once was extracted from {has_threaded_comments}[http://github.com/aarongough/has_threaded_comments] and then given significant love and attention.

=== Example

Let's say you don't want a user to be able to submit more than one vote in your poll/rating system, just add allow_action_once to your controller like so:

  class PollController < ApplicationController
    
    allow_action_once :only => [:vote]
    
    # POST /poll/vote/1
    def vote
      # update the item in the database
    end
    
  end

=== Installation

Install via the Rails plugin system:

  ./script/plugin install git://github.com/aarongough/allow_action_once.git
  
=== How it works

After you install allow_action_once every time a user requests a page from your application a 'challenge cookie' is set. In order for the user to be able to perform a protected action the application must receive the challenge cookie back. This stops people from simply disabling their cookies and voting/rating/flaggin/etc a bunch of times. 

After the user has performed a protected action another cookie is set with an identifier for that action. If they try to perform the action again then they get a response of :bad_request (this is designed to be used with AJAX requests). 

At the moment unique users are only identified using cookies, however a new version of allow_action_once is coming soon that employs a secondary method as well.

=== Caveats

Requiring users to create accounts for your application lowers your conversion rate. So allowing anonymous users is a good thing! But there is a downside: there is no way that you can guarantee that a user will not be able to vote multiple times. They might clear their cookies, they might use another computer, etc... In practice this is generally not a big issue as long as you are aware of it!

=== Author

Author:: {Aaron Gough}[mailto:aaron@aarongough.com]

Copyright (c) 2010 {Aaron Gough}[http://thingsaaronmade.com/] {thingsaaronmade.com}[http://thingsaaronmade.com/], released under the MIT license
